What makes me good at my job is also
what makes me bad at life. This is maybe
more than you bargain for.
Our next guest has interviewed everyone.
My money doesn't jiggle jiggle.
It's a cathedral of porn.
That's a little offensive. You're a very
fascinating person. How do you connect
with people? I'm just so curious about
what takes someone to that place,
why people do the things that they do.
The question I get asked most often is
like, how do you not get angry with some
of these people, especially the ones who
are sort of spewing hate? If if people
see like your attempt to wrestle
intimacies from them, that's never going
to go well. I think also there's some
part of me thinks maybe the other
person's got it figured out and I
haven't.
Your former wife said, "There's nothing
real about you." Jimmy Savile, he also
said something about insincerity being
your specialtity.
That's good. I'm glad you brought that
up.
I remember it vividly. First of all,
I neglected my personal life to focus on
achieving professional success. The
price was paid by those nearest and
dearest to me. When did you get that
feedback?
I saw my relationships as a life support
system for my kind of work self instead
of the other way around saying to my
wife, well, this is what I do. I did a
lot of great segments just by being
available at a moment's notice. I just
think, oh, this isn't going well. So, it
became a bit of an impass. Is it
something that comes with a cost? And is
it something you want to change?
Before this episode starts, I have a
small favor to ask from you. 2 months
ago, 74% of people that watch this
channel didn't subscribe. We're now down
to 69%.
My goal is 50%. So, if you've ever liked
any of the videos we've posted, if you
like this channel, can you do me a quick
favor and hit the subscribe button? It
helps this channel more than you know,
and the bigger the channel gets, as
you've seen, the bigger the guests get.
Thank you and enjoy this episode.
[Music]
Louie, you're a very fascinating person.
Thank you.
And I've, you know, I've, as I've read
through your story, I read your
autobiography as well, I was trying to
understand
what I needed to understand about your
earliest experiences to really
understand the man that you are today,
the the interesting personality you have
and the trajectory you went and took in
your life. So, please enlighten me. What
What What are the most pertinent things
that I need to know about your earliest
years to understand you? Oh my goodness.
We could I I could I spend two hours
answering that question on its own. I
don't know how interesting it would be.
I'll try and give you a brief answer.
I like the long answers.
Oh, do you?
Yeah.
Well,
first of all, my um parents are my mom's
British, my dad's American. They are
both um in in different respects are
freeth thinkers. They they grew up in
the 60s and they embrace aspects of the
counterculture. They regarded their own
parents as being in certain respects
sort of limited and cloistered and and
and so my mom joined VSO volunteer
service overseas to get experience of
life in Africa. My dad joined the Peace
Corps. He would have been probably
enlisted to serve in Vietnam and he
didn't want to do that. So he went to
teach in Africa as well and that's where
they met. So I was raised
um I was born in Singapore where they
were teaching. Uh my brother was born in
in Uganda where um where they were
teaching at that time. and my older
brother. But then we set they settled in
London and and so growing up I was
conscious of of them as people who who
who really encouraged us to open our
minds and maybe you know in it was 99%
positive like 1% I think like a lot of
people you know people use this term
social justice warriors right as a to
form of judgment about overly dogooding
like there's an element of I don't tend
to use that term because I sort of it's
become it's been weaponized but I
suppose in a sense My parents were kind
of social justice warriors. Like they
were very much encouraging me to
challenge or us to challenge racism
where we saw it, to challenge sexism, to
be uh open to new experiences, not to
fall into easy judgments about other
cultures and other countries and other
people. And and and and I only say the
1% sometimes that can be inflected with
a little bit of a sense of superiority.
And I talk a bit about that in my book.
slight feeling that we weren't really
like quite like other people. You know,
other people were maybe not quite as
smart or not quite as literary, you
know, and I don't I don't, you know, I
strive not to endorse whatever is in me
remains in me of that I try to unpack
and eradicate. But nevertheless, that's
the way looking back on it. That's
something that I see and pick up on. My
dad's a writer, a novelist. My mom is a
you know after teaching uh my dad became
a very successful literary novelist and
travel writer. My mom went on to become
a radio producer and worked for the BBC
World Service which is for those who
don't know that's the service that
broadcasts all over the world and it's
it's a bit like radio 4 but broadcast
this tiny language. It's extraordinary
institution. It sort of represents in
some ways the best of the BBC.
Um, so I was growing up sort of aware
that we, you know, we were a family that
loved books and and loved reading and,
you know, we watched TV and listened to
pop music and did the normal things, but
I think underneath it all was a feeling
that to really count in life. Um, you
should be a literary writer. like that
was that was without me fully maybe
acknowledging it that was underneath
this thing that you should really I
think still my dad probably feels that
like he's very supportive of me and my
TV making but he's like Lou you thought
have you thought about writing another
book Lou you're you know you you've got
time you've got the talent you can I I
don't want to push you into this but Lou
you know you should think about writing
a book that's a great idea for a book
you know that kind of thing anyway so
that all of that was under underlying my
attitude to life. Then they sent me off
to um school, primary school. I'm going
to have to I mean you wanted a long
answer. This is maybe more than you
bargain for. I suppose alongside that is
the the influence of friends and and and
you know I can start and and so the
counterveailing impulses of growing up
in the 70s and 80s in South London and
being exposed to funny creative people
and my friendship group which who who
you know invol some of them have gone on
to work in sort of civilian quote
unquote lives as you know restorters or
or or you know music other stuff but but
saliently They were uh Adam Buckton, Joe
Cornish, and another friend, Zack
Sandler, who were super creative. Adam
and Joe went on to have their own TV
show. And I was conscious of falling in
with a little group, Amelia, of of um
like-minded kids who were very funny,
really into movies, TV. And that was
where I suppose I began to feel that
there was well, you know, I don't want
to owe in hindsight it's tempting to um
sort of read back read back what I do
now into that. But I just know that that
that friendship group was very important
to me and maybe counteracted some of the
more because I was academic. I was I was
I did really well at school.
I feel I could just go on and on. Should
I Should I keep going?
I just listen here.
Cuz the other part of it was that I was
um I was quite an anxious child. So I I
would I would I worried about everything
and uh I I would think about things that
were on the horizon. like when I was
five or six years old, I remember
fixating, you know, there were various
things that came and went that really
worried me, but one was um the idea of
maple dancing, which was a big I don't
know if it's still like in in state
primaries um at that time every May
holiday like you would do maple dancing.
What is that?
It's it's a it's it's an old English or
maybe British tradition where there's a
big pole. I think it's like a fertility
right, you know, to touch a wicker man
about it. You know, it's enormous kind
of mast, a pole like maybe like like a
totem pole almost like sort of 20 ft
high and then there's ribbons around it.
And as children, you would skip round it
and you would sort of braid the ribbons
together to form nice patterns. And I
remember seeing them doing it in primary
school and thinking like that looks
really hard and I'm going to have to do
that next year and I don't know how I'm
going to do it. And just I remember
being preoccupied with how am I going to
learn how to do that? I only mentioned
that as an example like there were other
things like just reading the before I
could read I remember seeing my older
brother reading and think I don't know
how you do that and and just getting
very worried about it. So in general my
I'm someone who is pray I know everyone
worries but I just feel as though that
feeling of worry and anxiety was quite a
strong background note and sometimes I
would control my anxiety not consciously
but again looking back by working hard
like by by by sort of just sort of
becoming almost like super focused on
academic work and um and as a result I
did very well in school and um you know
like those people look back and say
like, well, I was a [__] up in school. I
was the opposite. Like I didn't always,
you know, I would get in trouble like
and sometimes I was regarded as,
especially when I was younger, 12, 13,
as a disruptive element because I was
also quite cheeky and sometimes tried to
communicate and connect with people via
teasing, right? Which is I don't know if
that's a common, it's quite a British
thing in a way. It certainly a big thing
in my family was what's now called
Bance, right? And sometimes I'd try and
do BS with my teacher and then it
wouldn't go well. And so but but in
general which is confusing like
regarding being regarded as a black
sheep in class or a disruptive person in
class and then um but then also getting
in trouble. They said like it's fine for
you to mess about and get in trouble and
then you do the homework and you're fine
but you're a bad influence on the other
kids. I used to get told that you're a
bad influence on your I was like that's
not true at all. Like if anything, my
friends were just as naughty and were
leading me astray. But nevertheless,
because I could sort of go home and then
become sort of organized and focus on my
work, I got a I got for a brief period,
I got labeled as the troublemaker.
Anyway, going through school, I I sort
of um the sort of the load stars for my
um sort of sense of who I was and how I
would progress in life, such as it is. I
mean, I was never that tactical, but as
I went as I went through school, I
thought, well, I'm I'm pretty good
academically. I guess I'll just do well
in exams and stuff and then see what
happens. And meanwhile, with my friends,
we'd be seeing movies. I got into rap
music in the late 80s and so would dress
like a sort of hip-hop nerd. I was
smoking quite a lot of weed, but still
studying. This was sort of again age 16
17 but it never really interfered with
my with my work. I went on to Oxford
and then having done well at Oxford
um left university and and at that point
it was like well what happens now? That
was when it felt like okay now I've no
longer really got a clear path. Does
that make sense?
Yeah. You know, I think if you
if you are if you're academic, if you
find academic work not easy, but you
find that you do well at it, because
it's not easy, but you apply yourself
and you do well at then sometimes life
can be a weird
um bump in the road like real life it's
only like well where are the exams
because I know I can do those you know
what do I do now? So for a while I
thought maybe I would be like a
professor or an academic or something
but then something in me told me that
wasn't quite right. So then the rest of
life is another story. But I hope that
sort of answers your questions about
those different um
those different uh sources of of of how
I sort you know my whatever it's
personality and interests. One of the
things that really stood out to me in
that answer was your your early
relationship with work. You said you
used to work hard to kind of suppress or
kind of distract yourself from the
anxiety of life. Is that accurate? Well,
what it is is um
well, I I worried about things in
general and um you know, one of those
worries was
homework or doing well in in in school.
Another worry was getting on with my
peer group. But uh in so far as I can I
could control those sources of anxiety
like you know I work is actually
relatively straightforward like if in
terms like how do I get more you know
how do I attempt to relate to people
better? Well that's that's kind of hard
and slightly mysterious but how do I do
well at these assignments I'm being
given? um then you just sit down and do
them um until you get it right. And and
you know a lot of these things are
aren't are subconscious like I'm not
thinking like oh how can I control my
anxiety but I would just find that I I I
if if exams were coming up I'd get super
anxious and um and I don't mean to
pathize it like I've never been
diagnosed with an anxiety disorder. I've
just slightly worry prone and as it
happens I've become less worry-prone as
I've grown up and it may be that there
were other things going on you know in
my family life who knows um in in you my
parents marriage wasn't always happy
they subsequently divorced there were
other things that probably were going on
that were stressful but for whatever
reason I found that all without almost
without meaning to I I would I took my
studies these uh very seriously. I have
to sort of slightly check myself when I
say this because I do I'm also aware
that I've looked back at some of my
reports having kind of got quite
attached to this narrative of myself as
sort of super SWAT right super studious
and I've looked at some of my old report
cards and some of them are are
especially when I'm six or seven sort of
say um you know Louis is a pleasure to
have in class but
sometimes it would be nice if he would
let other pupils speak. He he he enjoys
the sound of his own voice kind of thing
which is very apppropo for this podcast
probably, you know, and like so so I I I
I had a sort of rambunctious side and
almost in social settings. My mom tells
a story essentially in my book, but of
of how when I was about five or six, I
would come home and I'd be really sad.
I'd be like, I don't know. I don't think
I don't like school anymore. And she'd
sort of think, well, Louis obviously not
getting on well at school. I need to
talk to his teacher. and she went into
to class and um and talked to the
teachers and said, "Do you understand
Louis is very sensitive? He's a very
sensitive young man." As I said, would
have been maybe five or six, seven years
old. And the teachers were like,
"Really?" Yes. He's a very sensitive
like just be mindful that you know
things you can say might hurt his
feelings, something like that. And they
were like struggling to recognize her
description of me. And then on the way
out of class, she passed the classroom,
could see through one of the glass
windows in the door, and I was running
along the desktops or doing a dance on
top of a desk. In other words, like it
was almost like in the setting itself, I
was a wild child and and should be
running a muck. But also I had like this
doubling like and then I go home and be
kind of be be worrying about small which
I think is probably still true of me in
some ways that I have a um I have that
sort of disruptive trickster impulse
alongside a certain um a certain
sensitivity.
Is that a defense mechanism or a a a way
to I don't know survive in a social
setting or is that the true nature of
you?
That's who I am. And I think, you know,
I could say, "Oh, well, I was a younger
child and my parents found me funny and
I I wanted to perform and I I wanted my
dad to, you know, I wanted to get my the
approval of my parents by being silly."
But the fact is is who knows? Like I
just know that,
you know, things like your sense of
humor or your inclination to to be
cheeky,
that's just always been in me. You know,
you know, I'm slightly wary of
attempting to to sort of um unpick where
that comes from because I just know
that's that's that's always been in me.
the relationship with work. I I think
even for myself, I I learned my
relationship with work at a very young
age and I I think I developed quite an
unhealthy relationship with work at the
expense of other things that matter in
life.
Yeah, me too. I think I can relate to
that.
And that's what I was trying to
understand is like when did you where
did your relationship with work come
from? On one hand, I was guessing maybe
it's from his father who was very, you
know, insistent on in being an
intellectual is uh is success Louie or
is it from the distraction of from
anxiety and from the social thing where
you could be successful at exams because
you were good at that so you double
down. I think it was all of the above.
Like my dad's got both my parents have
work ethics that border on this sort of
being over the top. My dad uh would you
know he's a he's a as I said he's a
writer and at the weekends like he
didn't really take weekends off like
certainly
Saturdays he would often be writing and
Sunday mornings he was often writing and
and he he's an extraord I want to give
both my parents a shout out. See, I'm my
parents were um
were basically first generation
university educated, came from very much
not at the high table of life. And and
so for my dad
to to sort of become a wealthy literary
writer, it's kind of an amazing thing
that he did. You know, in the world of
you know, it's one thing to be a a
popular novelist. That's hard anyway. to
be a a a novelist or travel writer who's
extremely successful, hadn't, you know,
sold hundreds of thousands or millions
of books
just uh without any legup in life is an
amazing thing. And um uh I wonder if
I've ever told him that. I hope I have.
Anyway, he'll listen to this probably
because he he follows my he follows my
uh career with interest. So some of that
I would have taken on board just through
osmosis of seeing that. Likewise, um my
mom being super studious going to Oxford
grow she grew up in tooting you know and
and her her sense of
self-belief or her sense of her own
destiny whatever it was and in her small
you know peer group of kids who were
educated at a state school and then
through her own hard work and the
support of her teachers going to Oxford
you know in the 60s as a woman that was
extremely unusual
So that was that was in the air but in
the end and and my older brother who was
very studious. And the other thing just
to reflect on is that I saw my brother
as the more brilliant child like he was
to to the way I saw it at the time was
more effortlessly
brilliant like sort of child prodigy
material you know and I thought I was
just kind of sort of irrelevant bit of
afterbirth that you know trailed around
after him. And so when I noticed that I
was getting fairly good results
um when I was sort of 11 12
it didn't feel particularly impressive
like it felt like well I guess I could I
can do well if I work hard it's not like
I'm kind of brilliant like my older
brother.
Um but I think when I you know again in
hindsight I think mainly what I see is
um is a sense that I just felt like this
was something I had to do. It wasn't a
choice. And I even later on when I was
at university I sometimes used to worry
that um I wonder if I'm missing out. You
know, people say it's the best years of
your life and you should be hang you
should be just going wild having fun.
And I did a, you know, some of that, but
I was also conscious of like maybe I'm
missing out by working by studying too
hard.
That's what I read in into your story of
of university was that
I wrote I actually wrote in my notes,
worked his ass off at Oxford. On the
point of affection, this is also
something I probably didn't learn from
my parents if I'm honest. I still call
my parents by their first names. Um,
did they encourage you to do that?
Yes. Yeah. Or I just didn't I didn't
learn affection. And actually, you know,
even growing up at 10 years old, when
one of my friends turned to me and went,
"You're my best friend." My body like
cuz the
the idea that I was someone's best
friend made me cringe. And I had this I
think I had this like emotional intimacy
affection issue growing up.
Although I think being a best friend is
something you show but don't say. It's a
bit creepy. you're my best friend. I
remember feeling stressed when a friend
said that to me and and thinking because
then you feel like you say, "Oh, you're
my best friend." And then it feels a bit
inauthentic.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Yes. You're like, "Do it. Don't say it."
Do you know what I mean?
Yeah.
I love you.
It didn't feel necessary to say
on.
Yeah. Exactly.
But but what is what did you learn about
affection at a young age?
I I feel really lucky that my parents um
I feel as though they were, you know,
they they worked hard. Like I had a
working mom. My dad was, as I say, had a
huge drive to be successful, but I I
always felt like the love that they had
for me was just taken as red. Like I I
never questioned it. Do you know what I
mean? In a way that felt positive. And
even though, you know, I think there's a
tendency or a temptation nowadays to
look back and and be thinking about
things that could have been otherwise.
And I think, you know, parts of that
therapy culture are really valid, but
there's also a sense in which um you can
focus on negative stuff. And I'm not
sure
at a certain point how how healthy or
helpful it is. And and and so for me,
I I never kind of questioned
like the love the love that they they
had for me. And I it was it was never
the case that I felt I was kind of um
seeking their approval. Like I remember
friends at school saying, "Well, my my
parents say if I do well in common
entrance, they're gonna get me a watch."
And I remember thinking that's quite
weird, you know, or my my parents never
I never felt like they needed to be I
that I was in any sense doing like
working hard for them and if they took
an interest
that was kind of a bonus but I didn't
rush to show them like I got all A's or
you know I was I came first in all the
exams or whatever. I wouldn't really
talk to them about it like that was just
something that I did for me.
What about emotional expression? I think
that's something that we learn how to
say like I love you and to hug and to be
to touch and uh
because you said you said
yeah like I my
humor is really important I say such a
kind of what they so dead it's cringe I
have my kids voices in my head but you
know humor is a very important way of
communicating you know humor is really I
often think in terms of how I see life.
That's why I'm worrying I sound a bit
humorless. But anyway, how I see life is
like humor is like the missing dimension
in terms of it's almost can't really be
expressed. But
uh we we shared a sense of humor as a
family and so we would make each other
laugh and
so teasing was important like little um
just not taking yourself too seriously.
My parents were I would say um like I
respected them. I would have I see how
my kids behaved towards me and I'm that
classic thing of like god if I did that
to my parents that would not have gone
well. It's not that I think of them
being especially strict. I didn't feel
they were at the time, but I wouldn't
have dared to um I don't know like
there was there was a sense of of of
them having boundaries that I would
respect and observe. I mean they they
slight also they slightly cheated
because we went to boarding school me
and my brother age 13. So those
difficult teenage years of sort of 13 to
18 or 13 to 17 they were part-timeing
it. And if mom and dad, if you're
listening, I'm sorry, but that's what it
is, right? They I mean it was a weekly
boarding and they got me in the
holidays, but other than that, they were
getting me half of Saturday and Sunday.
So, I've got kids who are teenagers and
you know that that's where like the the
a lot of the conflict kicks in. So, uh,
when I look back at how I related to my
parents, there were there were times
when, um, it felt like they didn't get
me or they were being too hard on me or
the mixed messages because they were
sort of on one hand being freespirited
and saying like, "If you want to smoke
some spliff, Lou, like that's fine. Just
be careful you don't get caught." Like,
kind of thing. Or other times we'd be
like, "How dare you? You're going out
there." You know, what are you doing? It
was like, well, which part of the are we
being are you being countercultural kind
of dudes or are you going to be like
Victorian parents? Like, which is it?
But in general, um I I kind of I kind of
got it. I kind of got I got I kind of
got that um you know that it was about
there was a foundation of love and
approval that was you know was
unconditional and and and I think if I
had anything
to sort of and to sort of refle reflect
on approach them for not reproach but
sort of reflect on things that in
hindsight could have been different.
It's the feeling that because they were
work focused and also because their
relationship was complicated
sometimes it felt like um
that me and my brother and I were
slightly a a side effect like we weren't
and which again I could spin that as a
positive actually like there was a sort
of a level of us being autonomous you
know we had whatever the opposite of
helicopter parents is they we slightly
had that like they were like, "Okay,
cool." You know, you do you and and and
um and I think again that can be I I
kind of quite grateful in some ways for
that. But um you know, they had their
own thing going on.
It reminds me of something Tim Grover
said, which I've repeated a few times.
He says he used to train Michael Jordan
and uh Kobe Bryant and he was I spoke to
him on this podcast when we did the LA
run and he said that sometimes an event
that happens in our life or something
that happens can create our brilliance.
It can be responsible in the case of
that kind of void of independence your
parents create creates someone that
works and that goes and gets stuff and
that's able to travel and be an island.
Um but it al also can create our dark
side like the same event creates our
brilliance but also our dark side. So my
question to you is from that particular
experience of having that independence
and feeling a bit like you were a side
thing in their lives, what was then the
the dark side? I can see the upside.
What's the upside
for me? I felt like the upside you were
saying is the independence you had.
Yeah, I think that's right.
Yeah. Yeah. That being a space to grow
and become your own person and not feel
that you're especially kicking against
anything but licensed to follow your own
interest. I think that's all positive. I
think um
uh what is the the look I think in
general what you know I've said this and
probably someone else said it as well
like that you know what you think maybe
your disability is also your superpower.
Exactly. And I think um uh
I think that I in I think
I've struggled with intimacy sometimes
my you know and and
I think I
you know in terms of relationship
building in in my private life like it's
a running joke between me and my wife
like that she's
extremely
sort of emotionally acute and that I'm
kind of slightly the opposite which is
kind of weird when you think about my
job which hinges on supposedly being
sort of maybe emotionally or
psychologically perceptive but it's
almost as though but I see in my mom as
well like my mom having worked at the
BBC
went into um therapy and became a
relationship counselor and it's funny
because um my mom also finds it
difficult sometimes to to fully inhabit
her her emotions if it does sound an odd
thing to say. And I don't I'm going to
probably regret saying that, but let's
make it about me. And I think w with me,
I think um yeah, I don't always find
intimacy easy. Like it's it it it's so
so so I sort of I I experience like a
lot of the times my work is is a license
to be intimate without consequences like
to get to a bit like what you're doing
now like you talk to people someone in a
prison you know who's been sentenced to
10 life sentences he's like okay how
does that feel so what what's life like
and and then kind of get getting or
whatever happens to be all the work I've
done in some sense is about attempting
to peel layers back and and and see
inside someone's psyche and then get on
a plane and fly off and go home and live
my normal life almost at a at a less
intimate plane of existence. And um so
clearly, you know, and the other joke
I've made over the years is like, oh,
what makes me good at my job is also
what makes me bad at life. So, so for me
it's I think and I think if you ask my
friends they might say, you know, be
like, "Oh, yeah, you know, Louis a good
guy. I hope they would say that." But
but they'd also might say like he's a
little bit absent, like he's a little
bit um
I I don't feel I'm an especially
attentive or present friend. and and and
you know I'm not you know some people
are really gifted at friendship like
they they like really they're there and
they think about they make arrangements
and
I don't make really I'm I'm not very
good at social arrangements all these
sort of boring things that are the
qualities that are really the stuff of
life like um just getting together
reaching out are you okay how's it been
a while since I saw you wanted to let's
meet up let's which in general this is a
cross generalization but I think women
slightly better at than men. And I think
that's been one of the many gifts my
wife has given me is actually involving
me in life like in a just a normal sort
of neurotypical way. Whereas I my
tendency would be to sort of disappear
into my slightly incelike shell, you
know, of of kind of in a metaphorical
shed of kind of counting. I the joke in
making my book is like, you know,
separating my collection of screws and
nails into their different jars. You
know what I mean? Like that for me is
like that. You know, a lot of guys be
like, "Yeah, that sounds like heaven to
have two hours to organize my shed, you
know, and not and not realize that
you're missing out on the tapestry of
life." So, I plead guilty to whatever
that is.
Maybe that's just being a man.
I can I can relate to It's funny. I was
having this conversation yesterday with
my friends where they're all saying,
"Yeah, Steve doesn't like to socialize.
You know, I I would rather sit upstairs
for seven days on my own working than
like someone said to me this, you meet
all these wonderful people on this
podcast
and you and it's such a wasted
opportunity that you don't text me, hey,
let's go for a coffee and it's just
outside of my nature. My nature is to
sit alone on my laptop and work.
Yeah.
And so again, my girlfriend, my partner
is the opposite.
Yeah.
So she's dragging me and so I really
I think it's quite a common dynamic, you
know, not bragging, two nights ago I was
a GQ man of the year. Thank you.
Applause. Thank you. Um uh I was one of
the honores and um so there was a like
there was a a banquet like a a posh
dinner catered by H Blumen and you know
Stormsy was going to be there Mo Salah
Leah Williamson the footballer.
I didn't get an invite. I must have.
It's not just men now. It turns out uh
extraordinary list of like Andrew
Garfield, an extraordinary list of
incredible people. And it wasn't even an
awards bank. It wasn't even like the
BAFTA's like where you sit and sit
through the speeches and then at 10 when
you're starving, hungry, and quite
tired, you sit down, eat your food. This
was like a banquet banquet where you
just sit around and have a delicious
meal and then a few people pop up and
say a few words between starter and the
main course. So it was like and it
wasn't even that it was like maybe a
couple hundred people like quite small
as these things go. But the point is is
before on the evening of I was like I
don't want to go and I said I knew I had
to go but I said to Nancy my wife I was
like I am not feeling this. She's like
what is it? I said, "I just I can't, you
know, I don't know. I just feel really
anxious." And she's like, "But you're
not even giving a speech, are you?"
Like, cuz sometimes it's that like,
"What if we win and I have to give a
speech or or you're worrying about
whether you're going to win?" It's like,
I knew I was an honory and I knew I
wasn't going to say any I wasn't going
to have to give a speech. And it was
just the idea of of having to talk to
people like in a relatively high wattage
setting. So you think like I don't want
to be wandering around like a blithering
idiot. So there's a sort of little
stress that sits alongside that. But
there was no real reason on paper why I
shouldn't have been thinking, wow, this
is going to be amazing. This is going to
be a night I'll remember my whole life,
you know, and I attempted to adjust my
mindset, you know, using kind of Paul
McKenna like or Yuri Gella like, you
know, just visualize. Think about what
this is. This is going to be no one's
expecting anything of you. this is a
chance to sit down with some amazing
people and have fun. But nevertheless,
for the first kind of hour, I was there
just thinking I kept just sighing
and Nancy was like, "What's the matter?"
So, I think that's just for what I think
that's in me. It's probably in a lot of
a lot of people and um you just deal
with it. But that you know, why why
should that be the case? I I don't
really know why.
Is it something that comes with a cost?
And is it something you want to change?
Um, if you're being really honest,
if I could dial down, I think sometimes
I think I have changed it actually is
the first thing to say because there
were times in my life where I said no to
things
just because I thought that's going to
be a bit like you know I did the maple
dancing in the end and it went fine. I
did learn this will surprise you but I
did learn how to read and you know
despite all the anxiety I had about
doing that and so and then as life went
on I think there were times when I said
no to things opportunities
which probably just because the idea I I
was asked to go on David Letterman's
chat show um when it was on CBS this
would have been in around 2001 and I
said no because I thought that's just
going to make me anxious and Looking
back on it, I probably
wish I'd done that.
Why would that make you anxious?
I find the chat show experience
not especially I mean I've done it a few
times and and as life goes on it seems
you know the idea of public speaking or
you know when I first got into TV
it it it was like why am I doing this?
This is not me. Like this is not what I
was cut out for. This is not something
that I aspired to do. And it sounds
really,
you know, the whole notion of it feels
um intimidating and and and just a bad
fit. and and nevertheless I knew that
you know you know just briefly like I
was working in magazines as a um as a
journalist in New York and um that's I I
aspired to be a a TV writer partly as a
way of sort of avoiding comparison with
my dad not directly but I suppose that
was in my mind was like I want to write
and be creative but I know I'll never
write books you know I didn't feel like
I wrote when I wrote It didn't feel
especially as though it came as easily
as I as it should. You know, it's hard
when your dad
like I relate to people with famous
parents like you know people like you
know Jacob Dylan.
Yeah.
Who's Bob Dylan's son? I don't know why
I reach for that comparison but Jacob
Dylan that track One Headlight. Do you
remember that one?
No.
Okay. For people who know they know you
know it's a great track was a huge
international hit. his dad's Bob Dylan.
That's a painful, maybe not painful, but
that's an extraordinary legacy to be
born into. And in a in a related way,
like I was conscious of my dad, his name
as a writer really meant something. And
that it was um that if I was to attempt
to write something, it was going to be a
case of very likely kind of falling
short, at least in my own mind. But the
idea of writing in television was was
less I felt would set would wouldn't
invite the same comparisons. Plus
I used to watch TV and I like TV and
there was something about the democratic
kind of nature of television. The fact
that everyone watches TV I thought well
that's a way of working in a medium that
will connect with people. And so it was
in the mid '9s TV was
uh in a kind of a mini golden age. The
Simpsons was on, Seinfeld was on,
Friends was just about to come on, that
there were all these amazing TV shows.
Larry Sanders was another one.
Did you want to connect with people? You
studied history at Oxford and as someone
that is appears to be a bit of an
introvert by nature from what you said
about your
double I have a duality where I'm partly
shy and introverted and then partly
outgoing and an extrovert.
So with your writing and with the TV
writing was your and with the magazine
writing I know you did some a stint at
um spy and was it metro in Boston?
Metro in San Jose San Jose California.
Was your was your objective and the
thing that you found fulfillment in your
work from was that connecting with
people
or was it just
I don't I think I connected with people
not to sound um you know oxymoronic or
whatever it is no tortologist by
connecting with people like in other
words like I always find I do my best
connecting
sounds a bit weird face to face I maybe
at one level but in the end I think I
was just trying to do good work and
approval, like maybe more than
connection, like just trying to sort of
get an A at work. Do you know what I
mean? So I would feel good and think
like, "Oh, I got 10 out of 10 on my
article or on my piece of writing, my my
film review." And then if people said to
me that was really good, that was like
getting, you know, like you got a good
review or whatever, you know, people
people say like you you did a good job,
then it it was maybe a way of um it's
just a little it's just a little uh
spurt of whatever that is like just kind
of pleasure, you know,
worthiness feeling worth, you know. I
don't want to I I I think I've got a
healthy relatively healthy sense of
self-esteem, but nevertheless, I I think
I I I I whether I require it, I enjoy,
you know, getting I got I've got a
series out at the moment. This isn't my
attempt to segue into the promotional
portion of this interview, but
nevertheless, here we are. I got a um
I've got a series out at the moment on I
player called Louis Thuru interviews.
And we had one that went out a few days
ago where I interviewed Bear Grills, an
alumnest of this very podcast. I
listened to your interview with him, by
the way.
Thank you.
In preparation. And um and when it went
out,
for whatever reason, I think cuz I
thought it was a good show and I hoped
it would I hoped it would get a good
reception, I was on um I thought I'm
going to go on Twitter and see what
people were saying. And it was
surprisingly quiet. And then I felt a
bit like um okay now I I'm going to I'll
try at Louisu. I'll try #bearril. I
tried a few different search terms and
then I suddenly I had a vision of my you
know you get a vision of yourself like
oh wow I've become that grubby guy kind
of like it's sort of sad is like like
trying to fish for fish for approval in
the vast swamp of the Twitter verse
right casting my line and nothing much
is coming back and I thought well and
then one that came back I looked at it
and it said just watched Louis Thu's
interview with Bear Grill Wow, it was
hella boring. And I was like, I just
caught a boot. And then I was like,
well, that's what you get. And by the
way, it isn't boring. It's great. And
the point I was trying to get to was
um then couple days later, I got a
review, great review in the Times, just
sort of pointing out all the things
about it that I knew to be really,
really good. It was sort of the perfect
review, you know, rave saying like this
is fresh, it's new, it's different, it's
fun, it's entertaining, it's revealing.
And I felt really good. And then one
level was like cuz before that, the
first three episodes, I hadn't really
checked Twitter. I thought I don't I'm
not that guy anymore. I don't really
care. Like I make the shows and I know
they're good. And the ones that aren't
so good, I know none of these is is a
clunker. They're all solid. and and then
he then and then I suddenly thought,
"Oh, I went back to I regressed into
being the needy sort of um the needy
insecure person, which is, you know, and
and that guy is always there, by the
way. I think a lot of people could
probably relate to that which doesn't it
doesn't mean you know which which is um
which is fine by the way but I suppose
to to your point um all you know in all
the kind of work in in the work I do
it's not like is it an urge to connect
like it's an urge to do good work and
then it's nice for that to be recognized
and as much as I I could I'd like to
pretend that I don't really care whether
people like it or not I do care
Actually, do you know what's funny is my
team are very honest with me and we're
in the car the other day and I believe
it was Holly. Holly and my team who
might be upstairs now and I said um we
were talking about Louis coming on the
podcast. I said, "Oh, he's got the new
series out where he interviews people."
I turned to I think it was Holly. It
might be someone else. So, sorry if it's
someone else. Um I turned to them and
said, "How is it?" Cuz they had seen it
before me. And they went,
"It's actually really good."
Oh, nice.
That's what they said to me. And they
would be and they would be so honest
with me. They went, "It's actually
really good." And then they explained
why it was good. me. Here's my thing.
Like that actually like isn't it it's
actually like
it's actually really good.
But you see when I because I' I'm a very
glass half empty kind of guy. It's with
respect to praise. Yeah.
So what I'm hearing there is it's
actually
surprising.
Yeah. I mean like cuz I'm here is that a
surprisingly in which case why would
that be surprising?
I can I think I can assert why it would
be surprising. Um, I think that
the generation Holly's in,
they don't watch um, shows like that on
BBC 1 typically.
And BBC 2,
BBC 2, sorry, on the BBC, should I say.
Yeah. Um, but that's what I got from it
is her generation who are like 22, 23,
who spend a lot of time on like Tik Tok
and Instagram and these other platforms.
I think um, it was I was actually quite
surprised
and I think that's probably true. And
also, I think in my world, if I'm going
to talk about stuff, you know, we're
there's a troll in all of us, right? And
and and in general, it's more enjoyable
to talk about stuff and dunk on stuff
because it's [__] right? Like I know
that sounds horrible. I'm slightly
oversimplifying.
I think you're right.
There's a little puff, especially in the
in the journalistic or in in the media
village.
It's like, did you see it? Nah. Yeah,
that was rubbish, wasn't it? And there's
a sort of reassuring feeling of like,
yeah,
let's all let's all give it a kicking.
So, so when you acknowledge that
something's good, you're sort of saying
like I'm going to grudgingly acknowledge
that that was good.
I think you're correct.
You know, there's a bit of that.
Yeah. I think pretty much everything,
especially when cuz we probably consider
ourselves working in the media industry.
Sure.
So, for the team to go, it's actually
really good.
Um, and then she went on to explain
most things aren't that good. They're
not.
I mean, most things are fine.
Yeah.
But most things are like
only about as good as they need to be.
You know what I mean? especially in the
interview format like how many other
ways can you can create an interview
format that is original and inspiring
and that's also what I got from her was
like she was talking to me about the way
the format was constructed. Yeah, I
think we pushed things forward a little
bit. Like it's not a paradigm shift.
Like we haven't completely flipped the
script as they used to say in hip-hop
circles, but it is, you know, we we
worked on the grammar. We tried to do
things a little differently. So we
created a for one of a better term
format you know that allowed for
elements of um actuality just being
silly having fun or being in live
settings where the unexpected could
happen but also bits of um uh
conversation that would be going to
places that were quite deep. So yeah,
thank you for that and that that that's
that's thank you for passing that on.
TV I I read when you were 18, I think
maybe 16, um if someone had said to you
that you would end up in TV, you would
have you would have been sort of
perplexed at how that would have the
steps that it would have taken to get
you there.
Definitely true.
You're you're in San Jose, I believe, at
the time. Um is that where Spy was the
magazine? No, I re just to rewind and I
and I also want to mention one other
thing which is cuz we talked a little
bit about studying and
and I feel as though whatever that is
that work ethic has stood me in
goodstead but I don't feel that that's I
often think there's you know a very
understandable misconception about the
level of importance of of academic work
you know that whole stay in school kids
and you know we were talking I think off
off mic about Mr. beast, the YouTuber,
and you know, the media landscape we're
in now. It it would just it's just
simply not correct to say that, oh, the
path lies through academic work, right?
And I was talking to my cousin Justin
Theoru, oddly enough, he says thorough,
who's an actor, he's a director, uh a
writer, he wrote Tropic Thunder, Iron
Man 2. He's been in he's also like
high-profile Hollywood actor. I
interviewed him for my podcast. I'm not
trying to plug that would be weird to
plug one podcast on another podcast, but
he and he he was like someone who
struggled in the academic setting like
he he had ADHD. He um flunked out of a
school. He went to another school where
they recognized his special needs. But
the point is that I sort of think so
many I think we under there's a tendency
to undervalue those parts of of um of
life that that lead to success that that
exist. I mean, maybe you maybe I'm sort
of out of line here because it sounds
like you are all over this, but those
parts of like the parts of life that
helped me become whoever I am, part of
it academic, part of it was almost
enimical to academic success. It was the
part that was free-spirited and naughty
and that was bunking off school and
seeing movies and and um or or get
getting me in trouble and and and and
whatever that is. And it's hard to
really bottle it and know quite what it
is. You know, there there's something
that I struggle sometimes with over
discipline, right? And and or a sense of
like doing well in controlled settings,
but actually it's that you need the yin
and the yang of both. And and when I
went out and did stuff that was
successful on TV, like working doing my
first segments at a show called TV
Nation, having been hired by Michael
Moore when I was 23,
partly like a work ethic, you know,
doing preparation and being, you know,
turning up on time, as they say, is like
90% of the battle, but actually then
being just sort of allowing those
creative juices sort of to to you know,
whatever that mysterious ious quality of
um humor and connectivity just be being
silly and disruptive like those are
really valuable.
They say, don't they? They say
conformity is great to succeed in school
but it's not great to succeed in life.
Maybe that's what it is. you kind of
need to be to unconform once you get out
you sort of do and I think and I want to
come back to your question but but I do
think that that's also you know 3 four
years ago I started a company and
there's a part of me that's overly um
so overly conventional you know and and
as a result seeks out unconvention in my
work and that's positive you know
because it means I love spending time
with people who feel like they give free
reign to the darkest and weirdest
impulses that I think to an extent we
all share but keep repressed you know
whatever those happen to be people
involved in sex work or or or people
involved in religious cults or or hate
groups and and that that's sort of my
stock in trade is talking to those
people because I feel as though I kind
of get it like I I understand that
though that that's part of the full
compliment as horrible as it might sound
to say like we all have like
unagnowledged and secret um impulses
that you know we we have sort of
civilized
uh in you know and and and kept and
repressed into into you know we've
inhibited them into our souls.
so that we can function and and not go
to be sent to prison or whatever or be
cancelled. But um f for me like I I I
sort of I I do it to a fault to the
point where I worked at the BBC inhouse
in BBC studios
just cuz I sort of liked the idea of the
structure like I'm a company man going
to the factory and you know building my
TV
programs but not owning them and cuz I
just thought you know and I like going
to the can I used to love working at TV
center because it felt like going to the
factory and then eating at the TV center
canteen you know it just felt felt like
comfortable, you know, my my granddad
worked at the London Water Board. His
whole life he had one job that he
started when he was 18 and and finished
when he was whatever 65. You know, to
some extent those were the times, but
that temperament is slightly in me the
whole time when when when he left, they
gave him um some a box of cutlery. You
know, that was the you know, you worked
here for for 47 years. Here's your s
your silverware in a walnut case. It was
on a was in pride of place like not
pride of play. It wasn't on the mental
piece, but you you used to we used to
look at that's what grandpa got when
he'd worked at the London Metropolitan
Water Board for 47 years, you know, you
sort of reverence it like and it was
only used for special occasions and and
there's a little bit of that in me. And
so when I finally went outside the BBC
and set up a company 3 or four years
ago, I'm sure most of your listeners
probably have their many of them, not
most, but many of them will have their
own companies or will be fully cognizant
of what it takes to make it in the sort
of the world of of of free market and
entrepreneurship, but for me that was
just absolutely not my lane. And it was
my wife who pushed me to do it. And so
that was a a case of me needing to break
out of whatever I was doing and say, "Do
you know what? Whatever you think that
is, risky or mysterious or
um you know, a bit spivy, you know, like
there's a little bit of judgment like
oh, I don't want to be one of the yepy
guys like we just had an IPO. I'm I've
just got my first Maserati." Like that
kind cuz I'm I'm antagon, you know, I'm
completely that that whole mindset. I
feel like I'm alienating maybe some of
your listeners. not my mindset. Like I'm
just like I I almost valorize the
opposite of that, you know, to probably
um an extent that's sort of faintly
unhealthy like like I don't want to be
the guy. I don't want a flash car. I
don't want to flash clothes. I don't
want anything. I want to be anti flash,
right? Like my watch, you can see this.
My wife was saying to me last night,
um you know, maybe time for a new watch.
This is a Casio, whatever that one is.
They said F91W. These cost like105
pounds. You can get them at Argos. Do
have you ever seen that watch before?
I have.
I was listening to a program about
Andrew Tate on the way here. A podcast.
You know who Andrew Tate is?
Yeah.
What's your Anyway, so Andrew Tate feels
like he's that guy reduced to its
quintessence where he's like, one of his
catchphrases was um people say, "Why
have you got a you know, green Bugatti?"
Do you know this meme? And what does he
say to them? He says um well he say
he says what color I say to them what
color is your Bugatti
right that's him in a nutshell is like
unapologetically trolllike ostentatious
displays of wealth and arrogance right
so I'm the antitate you can put that on
my you put that on my gravestone the
antitate so I'm like I don't give a [__]
about your Bugatti I think it's
embarrassing that you have one but you
know fine you know and that's kind of a
joke like that's I my point really is
that that's something I need to keep an
eye on, you know, cuz actually
ostentatas
almost like ostentatious humility is its
own poison. Like like why are you so
wedded to the idea of having a [__]
watch by the way? It's not a [__] watch.
It's completely reliable and it's I've
never had it. The only thing that goes
on it is the strap. So So I've got one
that's got a you can replace the strap
after about 5 years the strap goes. I've
got two of these. I'm not bragging. I've
got one. I've got my I've got my spare
one in case I can't find this one.
Anyway, last time my wife said, "Might
be time for a new watch." I've got to
embrace I'm trying to lean into being
the guy that isn't showing off about
what a lack of what a not show off he
is. You think I've lost the thread? I
haven't. The point I'm getting to is
that um so I needed to start a company
and not because it's it's oddly
infantilizing after a while. Like
there's nothing there's nothing cool
about making like hundreds of hours of
TV and and not owning any of it, right?
That's just me being a little bit of a
chump. And partly that's you know
there's a quid proquo I suppose like
well you don't get stressed, you turn
up, you're making things for a public
broadcaster. You're getting a decent
salary for sure. But people would say
like why you know everyone else. So who
do you work for? It's like well I'm BBC.
I'm on contract. I I work from contract
to contract three years at a time. Like
really, you don't have your own company?
Like no, why not? Like, you know, cuz
everyone else does. Like Jamie Oliver or
Hugh Fernley Whittingto or or you know,
whoever you care to mention, any
presenter,
Bear Grills,
Bear Grills of any longevity um would
would be making their own shows. You
know, it's it is it's a no-brainer. And
I was like, I guess I just I'm fine
doing my I'm a creature of habit, you
know, that was sort of what I've just
sort of fine. I don't want to mess
around with it. And then having done it
three or four years ago, like, yeah, I
probably should have should have done it
a bit earlier. But it it's so so it's
that thing of um the point which now
landing on the point sounds a bit benile
was that you can sort of get in being a
creature of habit being sort of
embracing whatever that you know your
own sense of self as um risk averse and
um conventional sometimes you know I
needed to challenge myself in order to
discover that there was a you know a
world out there that was sort of more
creative, more lucrative, more fun, more
adventurous
That's happened a few times in your life
where you've kind of taken a leap into
the unknown which is actually quite
surprising having you know described
yourself as a creature of comfort even
habit
have habit sorry um
which I don't mean to habit like trying
to like tell you off I did say habit I
maybe of comfort as well although but
habit is really what I meant. Yeah.
Creature of habit. Cuz I cuz I was
reading about when you made that
transition from being a writer to a TV
presenter. And
I I I remember writing some quotes about
how um how like there was one about
feeling like an imposter a little bit to
some degree and getting on that plane to
go and interview these Christians once
Michael Moore had sort of um put you
front and center in the documentary and
thinking what the [__] am I doing here?
Yeah, that was I remember it vividly.
It's extraordinary as you go through
life so much disappears but there are
times when you realize you're at this mo
momentous moment I suppose often it's
high stress moments um which which is
really revealing isn't it because
actually risk avoidance you know that
that almost like god my mind's whizzing
now but that benthamite idea like the
greatest happiness you know in
philosophy there's a utilitarian ideal
that's supposed to be the the metric for
how you judge whether an action is good
or not and it's the greatest will it
cause the greatest happiness of the
greatest number of people. But then if
you unpack that like well what is
happiness like and actually how do you
measure it and how do you measure is it
happiness in the moment is it happiness
as it's recollected over time? Is it um
a happiness that you know um you can uh
that will spread to other people or you
know it will exist for a hundred years.
Uh and and so actually there's a there's
a sense of fear and discomfort that will
subsequently lead to sense of of of of
triumph or self-satisfaction.
I you know is it happiness? Is it I
don't know like that fear is such a such
a blunt instrument for attempting to me
measure reality and um and in general
fear which you would equate with
unhappiness
can very often be what ends up creating
the conditions for real achievement. And
I I I I remember sitting on this plane
having been given a job by Michael Moore
as a presenter on you know TV Nation. It
was a network TV show on NBC one of the
what there were then three networks in
America. I was 23. I I was, as I say,
awkward in every apparent way,
disqualified for being a a correspondent
on a network TV show.
I was in I was having I was in the
union, like, you know, as probably still
the case, but definitely then, um, these
TV shows were unionized to an extent in
America further than they would be in
the UK. So I would be I was in the
writer's guild of America uh as a result
of being hired and so they were required
to fly me business class. Like I don't
think I'd ever been in business class
and somehow that contributed to my
imposttor syndrome, my sense like I
shouldn't really be here. I remember
sitting there thinking like this is all
kinds of wrong. Like I don't know what
I'm doing here. I don't know why they
think I'm qualified to do this and
nevertheless this is what's happening.
and and I was that there was a segment
that uh was about, you know, TV Nation
was a kind of satirical fact-based
comedy show where you went out and
slightly made fun of people with to
prove a political point or to sort of
make some sort of social point. So, I
was interviewing religious cults about
when the end of the world was going to
happen. So, it was sort of like slightly
cheeky um irreverent take on religious
fanaticism or religious weirdness. So
you guys like I wanted to know so when
will the world end? Is it on a Tuesday?
How can I get prepared? And I was sort
of w in a wideeyed way. Oh no, like will
there be, you know, and are the
spaceships going to land? And what will
the aliens look like? But I was just
incredibly conscious of of thinking like
why have I been given this huge um it
felt like a big slab of pressure and and
sort of license to fail very publicly
and very embarrassingly
and and I also knew I wasn't you know
but I'm also wasn't so disconnected from
reality that I didn't think like well
it's a huge opportunity like may and my
my girlfriend at the time was very
supportive and like you know you you
should you you can do this Louis, like
you're you're really good with people
and and um and and you know, don't don't
don't worry. Like you you can you you've
got this. You can handle it.
Were you trying to talk yourself out of
it?
I was um it wasn't like I ever thought I
um
I I won't do it. Like there was no
question for like I'm going to do it.
Like I have to do it, but I I I sort of
didn't want to do it. Does that make
sense? Has that been typical of your
life where you know you've got to do it
but it feels kind of painful and anxious
as you approach the challenge even like
with starting your own company?
Oh yeah, I think so. Like there's times
when
you know I suppose that's where the work
ethic part fits in or whatever like that
part of
if if you commit to doing something like
I'm very I I hate to let people down
like if I commit to doing something
um or turning up on time or I still
struggle with that part like especially
as you're in the when you're in the
public eye or you're in demand and
people write and ask for things I still
you know will you come to our school and
give a talk or I don't I I I'm I'm a
very I'm very agreeable in that sort of
technical sense. I'm I'm very inclined
to agree to do things and that can get
you in trouble because you find you're
over I I find I overaggree and make
unrealistic commitments like oh that'll
be fine and then I'll do that and then
I'll do that and then you look at it and
you're like there's just no way on earth
I can do all of these things. So I try
and ring fence my commitment levels but
that's not easy. So, but in in a
positive way, um that sense of like
feeling like I need to show up having
agreed to do it, having been offered a
um an opportunity, even though it might
sound enormously stressful, like I would
never I think this may be a world in
which
I never got into TV. I don't know quite
what I did end up doing. The thing that
it makes me reflect on is the extent to
which we're conditioned and groomed into
behaviors that can be healthy or
unhealthy or positive or not positive.
And I think that's the part of the
libertarian ethos that I have a huge
well among others I have a huge issue
with is like, oh, just let people be
themselves. People need help to fulfill
their potential, right? That idea that
oh, you know, you can pull yourself up
by the bootstraps. like I with all the
advantages I had of like a first rate
private education, supportive parents, e
even I like didn't see myself as someone
who would have various kinds of success.
I didn't feel that that was in me for
whatever reason. But other along the
way, people among Michael Moore, um,
people at the BBC who then commissioned
me to do my own series off the back of
TV Nation when I got commissioned to do
weird weekends, my wife Nancy, other
people along the way have sort of um
seen things in me that I didn't see in
myself. Even this interview series going
out at the moment, I I never, it sounds
awful. I never aspired to have like a TV
interview series like it was something
that would be mentioned from time to
time and I would say like that's not
really me you know I like going out like
my my comfort like my happy place really
is in terms of TV like oh go and be in a
prison for two weeks and film the
inmates or go to a mental hospital or go
to a um a brothel like I made a film
about a brothel and just hang out there
for two or three weeks and just be a fl
that that to me
It sounds awful, but that's that's like
pure bliss, like work-wise. But the idea
of, oh, we'll have a formal sit down
interview and you'll talk to someone
famous who probably only has a couple of
hours for you and then we'll piece it
all together and do shoot. I I never
thought like that's really something I
want to do. But Patrick Holland, who was
then in charge of BBC 2, had listened to
my podcast and said like, I really think
this would work. Some not this exactly,
but there's a there's there's a TV show
that takes aspects of this that could
exist that would, you know, involve you
talking to people and and I remember you
would think like, oh, that would that
must have been exciting. Like someone
saying like, I wanted to do a this TV
format involves partly chat show, partly
documentary. I just thought I didn't
think like that's something I'll never
do. I did think like I just felt very
blank about it. I know that's horrible.
Like people are going to listen to this
and throw up in their cars. But I just
thought that sounds sort of stressful.
I'm not sure if I really want to do
that.
What?
But I made myself The point is I made
myself do it because I had a team around
me who I knew expected me to do it and
at some level I had enough sense to
recognize that it was an opportunity.
these people that have seen things in
you that you maybe couldn't at the time
have seen in yourself or seen roles for
you that you maybe at the time couldn't
have seen for yourself. Michael Moore,
Nancy, and then people at the BBC that
you mentioned.
Are you aware of what they're seeing in
you
now in hindsight what they
Yeah, I think so. And I think in with
with a bit of time I've been able to
appreciate um
that I know it sounds sort of glib and
maybe even false modest but to
appreciate that I have something to
offer. Um
what is that?
Well um
it makes people feel uncomfortable when
you ask them these questions.
No no I'm fine with it like because I
feel as though I I can analyze it
um with with the benefit of 25 years of
doing it. I think it's something to do
with like a little bit of intelligence,
a little bit of humor, a little bit of
un
sort of unsort
awkwardness. Like I think that's part of
it. just being a little bit awkward, a
little bit of um
sort of authenticity
or or whatever that is like just sort of
feeling like I think maybe that that
same thing of not really
fully chasing it or fully sort of
needing it, oddly enough is almost the
pre, you know, it's like to go through
the door, you have to not want to go
through the door too much. I don't know
if that's even that's definitely not a
saying and it doesn't actually make any
sense but whatever sense you can make of
that contradictory statement if you want
it too much I think that there's there's
then you need to step back and think
about quite it's almost like then you're
not ready um grasshopper is that the
grasshopper is that what they saying
karate kid I think if I can talk if I
can call you a grasshopper Steve no um
you know it's like it's that feeling of
uh you know at the end of the A
um there's more important things in life
and um I don't want to overdo I got lost
in my metaphor a bit but I think in the
end it's like those different qualities
of of of of it's it's that complement of
qualities and then just luck but I don't
think luck really is a quality but
alongside I'm now at the position where
having done my job for long enough it's
put me in a slight I think there's loads
of people who could be uh whoever I am
like occupy that cultural place that I'm
in but you know and and partly I've
earned my place here and partly I've
been really lucky
but I think you know when you said
something earlier it also made me think
of another quality which is to do with
which is a negative thing which is that
you know that idea like you when you
were told you know when I was told that
oh you know Patrick want you know he's
quite keen to do some sort of talk
format or some interview thing where
you're on TV and I and I just think like
well I'm not really sure. I I I think
one of my because it goes back to what
you were asking earlier about what is
the downside of these various qualities
like I do think there's a term
anhidonic. Have you ever heard that
term? It just means I think it's a
clinical term but it sort of mean it
sort of means averse to pleasure or
lacking in pleasure. I there's a part of
me again that um I think my wife has
helped me with is that I I kind of sense
that I'm not always connected to
pleasure. Does that sound weird? like I
I you know sometimes I I sort of drift
through life and and I have to sort of
stop and remind myself I think because I
I sort of I I tend to see downsides and
and I'm I'm working on that and and I I
really do like I I I sort of need to
it's really odd like I've won three
BAFTAs not bragging uh it this just came
up and I and I mentioned it's a fact and
um and when you win a BAFTA you've got a
lot of awards up I'm not seeing a BAFTA.
Maybe those are just
I presented BA to someone else.
Some of them one's a camera. I'm not
sure that camera is an award or you can
do a cutaway of that later. You know,
it's odd like I my main thing on winning
each time I won a BAFTA.
My first thought has been, oh [__] now
I have to give an acceptance speech,
right? And have to get up there. And um
you know in hiding like the pleasure you
get a little pleasure over the
subsequent years when you can bring it
up again and again as I like to do but
actually it's really odd like I most of
the time when I get good news sometimes
I don't even I can't notice the good
news. Does that sound really weird?
No, that makes sense.
I don't know if that make you Thank you
for saying that. I think you're being
polite. Yeah,
I'm not someone who I'm not someone who
um is who who automatically feels
connected to the good things that happen
to them.
How does one remain happy if they have
that kind of default? Uh, oh my god,
where am I going to put this third
buffer that I've won or now I have to do
a speech?
Not awful, but you just sort of follow
your routine, you know, and actually I
am a happy person and um
I um I you know I I I take pleasure in
the simple things in life, you know. I I
like um doing stuff with the you know
stuff with the family or you know really
I really am son terrible I've met a
simple pleasure like I w I like watching
match of the day at the weekend like you
say like yeah okay lots of people like
doing that what's that but you know like
that that for me is one of the small
things in the week where I'm like I know
I'm going to be happy for the next 45
minutes or or hour you know what I mean
or on on a on a Saturday night I listen
to Loose Ends on Radio 4 and often I'll
be cooking and and that's a small thing
and I get a little a little tiny little
boost out of I know I'm going to enjoy
usually I enjoy listening to it. There's
little thing I I mean I I'm not if
someone says like you're going to go on
holiday to the Bahamas,
you know, I'm trying to imagine what a
really big happy thing would be. I I
would normally experience that as as
stress and anxiety. I think that's quite
normal though. Holidays are stressful,
aren't they?
Maybe you've got your priorities in
order, in fact, because you don't seem
to be compelled or sat um or derive your
happiness from like the big wanky stuff,
from like the Lamborghini, the Bugatti,
the BAFTA.
Yeah. What color is your Bugatti?
The GQ man of the year stuff. You simp
seem to derive it from the the simple
intrinsically fulfilling things like,
you know, cooking, listening to a thing
that's intellectually stimulating. So
maybe we're all maybe everyone else is a
weirdo and you're actually incredibly
normal.
Don't know. I I think there's more of us
out there than you might think, but
maybe not. We're all trapped in our own
brains. There's no way of measuring. I
do think that um you know, I mentioned
that when I saw that I got a nice review
in the Times, that gave me like, as I
said, I gave me a buzz.
You cared about your work, though. You
really cared about
Well, that wasn't even about I mean, I
do care about the work. I mean work is a
big source of pleasure like in the sense
of either being on location and um being
aware of it going well and getting into
an almost like a mindset in an interview
of feeling like yeah this is all good
like I feel connected I feel uh cuz it's
a high st in a way I'm sure you have a
little bit if you have an interview with
someone you feel like you've been trying
to book it for a while uh the moment
comes you're like the next two hours are
really important you want it to go
smoothly you want it to feel like a
revealing
encounter. You You want to be probing
and insightful and attentive and
immersed and not distracted, but also
thinking ahead and and all of that's
going on and then it starts and then you
feel like, "Oh, it's going okay." And
then afterwards, you're like, "That was
a good one." And then in the edit,
you're putting it together and you're
piecing things in like that. all of
those the simple pleasures of of craft,
you know, like it's really and it is
simple like it's no great mystery, but
that that's that's a big part of um of
how I connect with
uh well my own happiness. How do you
connect with people? So actually I
wanted to ask you this for my own sort
of learning. You've done this for
multiple decades. You've sat with people
from every corner of the world who have
all of these different experiences and
some of them are a little bit, you know,
in the nicer sense, a little bit out
there.
Mhm.
I'm glad I landed with a PC word. A
little bit out there.
Wonder what the non-PC was.
But you have um It was funny when I
asked you about the qualities you have.
I think you absolutely nailed it. And
all of those make you incredibly
disarming. That almost like lack of
intense seriousness makes you a really
disarming individual.
Um how do you connect with people? How
intentional is your approach to
connecting with them in your new
interview series? But also just
generally some of it is stuff that
you know I didn't I just sort of came by
by accident probably most of it which is
a thing you know natural curiosity which
I think you have
a feeling of um of just wanting to know
why people do the things that they do
right and and and sort of getting out of
your own way a bit you know in the sense
because the question I get asked most
often is like what? How do you not get
angry with some of these people,
especially the ones who are sort of
spewing hate or coming out with stuff
that's really objectionable? And I find
it a slightly confusing question because
I think that's so is so far from what's
in my head most of the time. I'm
genuinely think like why if if it is
someone like say a neo-Nazi or someone
involved in religious intolerance,
I'm just so curious about what takes
someone to that place. what what what's
in their mind that to actually berate
them to give them a hard time
or even be particularly journalistically
confrontational that's not that's not my
default mode.
That's so interesting cuz I just think
in life generally those who like seek to
even in our personal relationships and
romantic relationships those that seek
to understand tend to build bridges. But
if you seek to like, as you say, berate.
I get told off on this podcast a lot on
like Twitter and in the press. Like
because I don't berate people. Like when
I had Matt Hanok here, I asked him the
questions I really wanted to know, but I
didn't I didn't come to berate him.
No,
he would have gone
Yeah.
the wall would have gone up had I done
that.
There's other ways of and some people
use a confrontational approach and
that's fine. And then I think in general
um you know there's many ways of doing
interviews and I think probably you know
I haven't interviewed many politicians
and it's probably related to that the
feeling that they they they have their
they tend to have their guard up. They
tend to be uh followed a strategy of of
attempting to be as as risk averse
headline averse as as possible. And it's
like those aren't the people I'm I'm
interested in. People who are genuinely
attempt who feel that they've got
something figured out or or or are
involved in a in a world or a lifestyle
or just some situation that is is either
self-sabotaging or or filled with angst.
So in the end, I see it as not I'm not
trying to get one over on people. I'm
not trying to I honestly most interviews
I see as a as a potential win-win. You
know what I mean? like I I think like
well there's no there's no reason why
you shouldn't tell me the truth and
you're involved in something that you're
relatively open about and and I I'll
just assume that that's probably the
case. Now obviously you're briefed.
you've done as much research as you can,
but um I think if you feel as though
you're coming from a position of um sort
of shared inquiry, then that's
contagious. Um I think also
I sort of tend to think I think there's
some parts maybe the other person's got
it figured out and I haven't, right? a
level of humility
so that when they say stuff I'm
genuinely thinking like well I guess
maybe or may or they say something
bonkers I'm like well that isn't right
but I enjoy bumping up against that and
I don't go in there thinking I'm going
to I'm going to get this person like I'm
going to get one over on them. I sort of
feel as though, you know, you come in
and you just sort of try and just see
what's going on. You know, if if people
see like you're you're attempting to
wrestle intimacies from them, that's
never going to go well. You just create
the space and the sense of of
understanding and allow them to sort of
walk through that. Everything you've
just described there that creating the
space to like understand them, the
humility which is ultimately creates
that safety which allows them to open up
are the exact things that I know my
partner wants from me in all of our
interactions.
So because you've got that skill in your
work, I'm here assuming that you also
have that at home.
Mhm.
Is that correct?
Um I think I could work better on it.
Like I'm very aware that the skill set I
often think about the skill set I have
in my work of being supposedly a good
listener and an empathetic and present
person I I slightly fail at in a kind of
I think a very probably normal way in in
my relationship. like I I have a very
happy marriage and probably you should
check that with Nancy uh cuz I'm aware
I'm slightly reviewing my own restaurant
if I can use that metaphor. Um and um
but yeah, on good readads I gave my book
a five out of five and and you know I'm
giving my marriage five out of five. Uh
so I think I think I could do I think I
could I could improve. This episode is
brought to you by Mercedes-Benz, who
recently got in touch to support the
Driver Co. Thank you. I'm a huge fan of
their cars. In fact, I have one of my
own, which is like an office on wheels,
and they have an exciting wide range of
cars that I'd love to tell you about.
The Mercedes EQ is the luxury electric
range of Mercedes-Benz, and it is
available across many models from the
SUVs to the saloons, meaning they're
ideal for all business needs. The
innovative next generation technology
found in all Mercedes EQ cars is really
paving the way for the electric car
industry. To make your electric car
switch so much easier, Mercedes-Benz has
a service called Mercedes Mi Charge.
It's a subscription which provides you
with access to a wide network of
charging stations across the entirety of
the UK. The app shows you the precise
location and current availability and
price at the selected charging station
of your choice. And this enables
businesses to effectively plan their
route ahead of their journey. You can
search Mercedes-Benz fleet today to
discover how the Mercedes EQ car range
can help your business get ahead. And if
you already drive a Mercedes EQ, let me
know how you find it. As some of you may
know, Intel are now one of our sponsors
on this podcast. And I really want to
tell you about their VRO platform, which
has totally changed the game for my
businesses. Let me tell you why. Intel
Vro is built for businesses. It offers
professional-grade performance and the
most comprehensive security which is
something that is key for every
entrepreneur. But the VRO platform also
offers complete modern management
capabilities which simply means that
it's perfect for a hybrid working setup.
Intel has spent over 15 years developing
this technology with ecosystem partners.
And I truly think it has the potential
to move businesses forward, making your
business journey far more productive and
efficient. So I really encourage you to
go and find out more at intel.co.uk/vpro
uk/vpro
and let me know what you think because
for me I know it's added no end of
benefit to all of our systems and
business continuity in your
autobiography on page 157.
Are you serious?
Yes.
Got to get through this. My life and
strange times in television.
Do you know what I'm going to say?
Get it on audio book for an extra
chapter about Jimmy Savile. That's true.
Speaking of page 157 and Jimmy Jimmy
Jimmy Savile,
on that page, your former wife, seeing
as we're talking about relationships and
reviewing them, etc., she said, "There's
nothing real about you."
Yeah.
And to the point of Jimmy Savile, he
also said something which was to the
same vein about insincerity being your
specialtity.
Yeah,
that's good. I'm glad you brought that
up.
It's quite a uh telling it's a ringing
piece of uh self-exposure
where where yeah I my wife and Jimmy
Savl both make the same critique of my
interpersonal qualities finding me
lacking in basically authenticity
lacking in sincerity there's nothing
real about well the first thing is when
a relationship is ending
um you seize whatever you can to hurt
the other person. I think it's I think
when someone you really love and you
think really loves you. I mean I it was
my girlfriend at the time although we
were married and that's a whole other
complicated but but yeah when that
relationship was ending
I think there's a feeling of betrayal
isn't there? It's like I thought we were
we were together forever and I trusted
that that would be the case and and here
we are clearly you don't feel the same
way and and so I'm in the position of in
her eyes being
a kind of traitor and inauthentic
someone who didn't deliver on um on what
was promised although it wasn't promised
but what was what seemed to be implicit.
Um
I think uh yeah insinc I mean I remember
where we were like when the Jimmy Savile
the first documentary I made about Jimmy
Sav when he was alive when Louis met
Jimmy not available on the I player um
but it's on the internet you can find it
and um I remember when we promoted it
um before I think it was when we
promoted it and he he agreed to do an
interview to promote it and he part That
was a profile interview in the Guardian
and he was interviewed at the King's
Cross in one of the in the hotel there
in one of the hotel rooms and the guy
from the Guardian came down and I don't
even know why
I don't even know why it came up. Um but
I made a joke and he said ah in
sincerity your specialtity
gosh you asking me to get inside the
mind of Jimmy Savile to think about what
he meant when he criticized me. I think
he thought that um
I think that journalistic role where um
well I think part I think you know what
it is is like
the best constru there's two
constructions I can put on that one is
just that
in journalism you sort of required to
inhabit this place of intimacy like
actually like hey let's do this and
let's do that and then afterwards
you sort of disconnect and sometimes
that can feel jarring I don't think
actually That's what he meant though.
Like I think I think maybe in some cases
there's a there's a part of journalism
that can feel slightly
in know sort of transactional where
you're like let's brow down on location
and and have fun and and yet if you
looked at it dispassionately it's
slightly cynical and calculating. It's
like well you're doing this for a TV
program and and so there's a part that
slightly feel a little bit
uncomfortable. I think really what he
was talking about there was a sense of
humor. Um he was he was calling out my
sense of humor which is sometime an
aspect of it which sometimes involves um
almost self-parody like an element of
where you say something
uh almost
as a way of par sort of parodying or
satarizing your own this isn't going to
make any sense Steve but you satarize
your own worst impulses like the best
example I can give is when I said to um
when I was with Neil and Christine
Hamilton, right, I did a program and
they were accused of sexual assault and
and while I filmed with them and then I
uh and then become media circus and I
carried on filming and then they did a
deal with the Mail on Sunday to sell
their story and I was interviewing them
during all of this and I said to
Christine, "How how much did the Mail on
Sunday pay for you uh for the
interview?" I was just curious cuz I
knew probably they got 10 or 15 or
20,000 and I was just curious. And
Christine said, "I'm not going to tell
you." And I said to Christine,
"Christine, this is me. I'm not a
journalist. I'm a friend. Like, you can
tell me." And a lot of people gave me
[__] for it, right? Like that what I
said. But in my mind like that was a
funny thing to say because quite
obviously
um I am a journalist and whether I'm a
friend or not is actually not
established. I'm not clearly not a
friend but I'm not also clearly a
friend. Right. So that was kind of a
funny remark because I was being nakedly
insincere
which is fun. Like sometimes to me
what's funny is saying like not like
sort of saying the wrong thing, saying
the thing that's sort of brazen as a way
of of just sort of identifying the
hypocrisy and having fun with it. So I I
tend to think that I think that's what
Jimmy Savile meant was that sometimes I
would say things that were kind of
definitively either untrue or quite
clearly being said because they were not
clearly true. Anyway, that's way you
asked that question and when you ask a
question about Jimmy Savile, I'm going
to give you a long answer because it's
easy to be misconstrued, but I think
that's what he meant. I think I'm in
general like fairly um
a fairly straight up person, but I also
think that the tendency to believe your
own [__] to drink your own Kool-Aid
is is almost universal, almost a
precondition of life, right? you know,
Nietze, the German philosopher,
uh, who I try not to quote too much
because it makes me sound pretentious,
but he has he has a couple of really
good quotes on this where one is, um,
for the true deceiver, you know, for the
most effective deceiver, first he must
believe his own deceptions. I'm mangling
that quotation, but the idea that in
order to con someone, you sort of have
to believe the most effective con artist
is the one who believes their own con.
you know, you and you know, like or a a
seducer like they say that about
Kasanova, you know, one of the most um
notorious womanizers um in human
history. And they say that he actually
each time he seduced someone, he fell in
love with them,
you know, and maybe it's true for sales
in general, like you really got to if
you believe in that. And and so I'm I'm
fully aware that for me to say like I'm
an authentic human being and that my
jour journalism relies on a kind of true
connection. I'm I'm I you know this
little part of me thinks like I think I
believe that. Um I'm pretty I I know I
do believe that but I'm not my own best
reference on whether or not that's
really the case.
I neglected my personal life to focus on
achieving some sort of professional
success. the price of my lack of
emotional nouse was paid by those
nearest and dearest to me. When did you
get that feedback? Cuz I remember the
times in my life where I've got that
feedback from
friends, family, romantic partners, and
at first sometimes we sometimes argue
against it. We go, "Oh, [__] off." And
then we walk away and we go, "This is
true." I think I've had that feedback
in my relationships more or less um
consistently
uh and and and until
maybe
four or five six years ago like I think
again I I feel like I'm reviewing my own
book like and now folks I am happy and
healthy and well adjusted and I've
arrived at a kind spiritual ual place of
tranquility. But I do I am conscious
that I um
all through my 20s and 30s I saw my
relationships as a um
I think I think the other phrase I use
is like I saw my relationships as a life
support system for my kind of work self.
Do you know what I mean?
Amen. I can relate. instead of the other
way around, you know, and so I would say
like, well, I would take off when I went
to work for Michael Moore, it was even
back in in the 90s, it was a source of
friction in the relationship that like
without much warning because I became
the fill-in guy who when other people
couldn't do segments or because they
were they found weren't available,
weren't stressed about it, I I'd be
like, let's get Louis to do it. I I I
did a lot of great segments just by
being available at a moment's notice to
fly somewhere and and never thought
really, which I don't know that that it
was the wrong thing to do at that time.
We didn't have kids. Um and so I'd be
like, "Okay, I'm off for three or four
days." And um but as it went on and then
as I had kids um and I was still doing
the same thing, sort of saying to my
wife, well, this is what I do. There's a
chapter in my book called This Is What I
Do. You know, you knew when we married
that we would be um that I was a sort of
globe trottting TV documentary maker.
And she um she said, "Yeah, what did I
do when we when we met? I was a TV
director as well, and I've changed what
I do and you need to change what you
do." Like I don't mean to sound like she
was being horrible about it, but her
attitude was like people make you need
to make an adjustment to accommodate the
fact that we now have two small
children. And
how did you receive that? Um,
at first
I think I received that as
well not not well like I it didn't make
me angry but it I I was somewhat
inflexible because my attitude was look
I was because I went you know my parents
had my dad traveled a lot for work my
mom was a full-time TV producer and we
had people at home opairs who um who
made sure that when we got home someone
was there and would make us a meal. And
so I was like, "Well, we just need to
get help." She said, "I don't want I
don't want us to get help." I said, "You
she" She said, "What?" I said, "I said,
you can do whatever you want to do. You
you can carry on working 5 days a week,
six day. You can travel as well if you
want. We just need to get help." And
she's I don't I want one of us to be
here and I want for some of that. I want
it to be you. I don't know. Does that
sound So
you sound like me.
Really?
Yeah. Yeah. And I was like, well, I
said, I guess I don't see it that way.
So, it became a bit of an impath for a
while.
And then,
and then um
well, then we had another child and um
and she said, "Well, now we've got a
baby and two small children, and you've
agreed to take to make sure you only
work in the UK." And I was like, "Did I
agree to that?" and she said yes. And I
couldn't remember it, but I was like,
well, she's probably right. And um
did you make rules? I read that you made
some rules.
You had a rule that I wouldn't go away
for more than two weeks. And um and
actually for most of the time it was
between sort of a week and 10 or 12
days.
Are you flexible now? I don't want to
make my wife sound like I know there
some people might hear that and go like
well you know Louis was obviously
bringing back the bigger wage and and so
he should have been I I honestly think
my wife was right about most of that. I
feel the same way about my partner and
it's almost identical that it it took me
to find the right person to compromise
my inflexibility where they they made
the case to me that quality time and
this relationship was actually an equal
priority let's say to the work and with
the right person I was finally willing
to bend
and I was finally willing to you know
so but I think it takes the right person
for me it does anyway
yeah the right person the right
relationship the right life stage I also
say that these interviews I'm doing part
of that is an agreement agreement that
we made well even an agreement a kind of
agreement I made with myself in lockdown
and being around my kids are now 16 14
and 8 you know it turns out older
children in many respects
need more management need more sort of
parental presence in their lives than
younger children and so I said well
maybe a way for me to travel less and
not be taking off for you know two or
three months a year because you
aggregate those two week trips or 10 and
they add up to maybe a quarter or a
third of the year. And now I I can I can
my schedule is much more m I said if I
do these interviews and we make TV shows
in the UK and that it's a more
controllable schedule and I can be
around more. Nancy helped me set up the
company. She's working more. I'm home
more. And so it's actually like it turns
out conforming to those expectations of
family involvement is really positive.
like can it can actually be a creative
boon. You know,
it's not the enemy necessarily. It can
be it can make you a more rounded person
that ends up being beneficial.
That's exactly what I used to think it
was. I used to think it was the enemy of
my professional success, but I've come
to learn that
the friend.
It's the Yeah, it serves it. Um, you
mentioned anxiety throughout this
conversation. Now, sometimes when people
talk about anxiety, they talk about it
as in um like like an emotion. And they
kind of it's a flippant word to describe
a situation where you're thinking a
little bit much. But then there's what
people would describe as sort of real
anxiety. That kind of crippling like ooh
you know that we've all felt that like
insane unshakable sort of deep
nervousness about a situation and worry.
Which one are you referring to?
Uh I think the first one I I don't think
I've ever had a panic attack for
example.
Um, I don't think I've ever had a
feeling of um kind of in being
incapacitated.
I mean, I've had moments where I've had
stage fright or m you know that that
thing where due to you you just get even
recently like there's been moments where
you just get this tremulous feeling of
nerves and your voice starts to shake.
Have you ever had that where you've been
in a situation where
or sometimes it's just sometimes it's to
do with you're in you get into an
argument with someone and you get really
upset and your voice goes a bit like
this like it doesn't you know it was
just kind of horrible. Uh or sometimes
it's just where you feel like you're you
like I've been once or twice in in
situations where um I just think oh this
isn't going well and then you your
confidence goes I mean I don't know if
that's quite that's sort of nerves which
is slightly different from anxiety.
anxiety like where but the anxiety I
mainly mean is just a kind of sense of
foroding a pervasive feeling of um of
worry about something that's going to
happen because one of the things we talk
a lot about on this podcast is about
mental health and about how that affects
people that are in high-profile high
stress positions. What's your you know
mental health is a topic that kind of
emerged in cultural relevance about
maybe a decade ago now but when I was a
kid I didn't understand it. I didn't
know what that was. And I I'll be
honest, I think the stigma was very much
my belief. It was kind of like people
are some people are crazy.
Yeah.
Um what's your journey been like with
your own mental health?
I feel really lucky to have um broadly
speaking good mental health. I also
think what you're saying is exactly
right. And I think that there's a kind
of there's a continuity, a blurring that
exists. So that um you I think mental
health as opposed to mental illness is a
good way of thinking about it like that
cuz actually um we should all be
striving towards being our best selves.
We should all be managing our anxiety. I
think a lot of men especially fail even
to recognize when their mental health
may not be as good as it could be. And
at the extreme end, you've got
incapacitating mental illness that
requires a set of interventions,
possibly medication,
even sort of residential rehab settings.
But for for for the rest of us, it's
just it's keeping an eye on on how
you're doing and and know, you know,
sometimes I notice my emotions from the
outside. Like I I notice that my voice
is raised. I'm like, "Wow, I'm angry."
you know, like or
or and even when I'm sad
I or grumpy or whatever it is, I'm not
the first really to see it. Or my wife
will say like, "Are you in a bad place?"
I think we've been guilty of failing to
see mental health as a holistic
condition. Like in other words, that
your support network needs to be in
place. You need social inter these are
really basic, but you need social
interaction. You need you need um
exposure to things outside of work. You
also need endorsement and approval in
work. And all of these things need to be
sort of pulling in the same direction.
There may be people in your life who are
undermining you and you may need support
from people to nudge you in the right
direction. But, you know, not to sound
really bland about it, I feel as though
I've um, you know, through through sort
of my wife's
perceptiveness and her ability to sort
of see how how just involved me in life
a bit more that that's um that's kept me
in a good place.
We have a closing tradition on this
podcast which um
which is the previous guest writes a
question for the next guest.
Oh, wow. Okay. And the previous guest,
you don't get to know who the previous
guest was, but the previous guest has
written a question um for you, not
knowing it was for you, and they said,
"What is your opinion
on hallucens?"
Hallucinogens.
Um I my opinion is I think um
you know if you're if if you feel like
you're if you're of age like 18 plus I
don't know how your younger listeners
are you know maybe even maybe slightly
older um and you feel like you've got
solid mental health I think it's a it's
not a bad avenue to go down. It's not
something I've massively dabbled in. Um,
I've noticed, I don't know about you,
like in my social settings,
um, it seems to be mushroom oil is
something that's increasingly
being used. Uh and I think actually in
you know in a and I think we're all
aware of the slight there's a dissonance
between our levels of acceptance of
alcohol and then the sort of relative
unacceptance of things like whether it's
marijuana or mushrooms and mushroom oil.
Like I'd like to see that leveled out.
Like I'd like to see as it is in
California and elsewhere I'd like to see
cannabis legalized and um I think
mushroom oil
without giving too much away could be
really positive
[Laughter]
from what I understand.
Louie, thank you so much for your time
today. I've learned so much from you for
so many reasons. Um, and your new
documentary on the BBC BBC2 and on I
player Louis through interviews is
incredible. Um, the people you're
interview six of them out there.
They're right now. Um, they're
incredible and you're interviewing some
incredible people that are are being
very vulnerable and open with you. But
thank you for the inspiration as well.
You're someone that I've watched for the
for decades.
Thanks, Steve.
And that's given me a life full of
enjoyment. So, thank you for coming and
doing this.
Pleasure.
Quick one. Right now, one of my sponsors
on this podcast who I absolutely adore,
crafted the men's jewelry brand, are
having a sale right now. Up to 70% off a
brand that's already incredibly
affordable. If you ever see me wearing
jewelry on videos in real life, it's
crafted jewelry. This particular piece,
these pearls here are one of my favorite
pieces to wear when I'm trying to wear a
fashionable item. All of their pieces, I
wear all of their rings, I wear all of
their jewelry, and I did before they
sponsored this podcast. I actually asked
them to sponsor this podcast because I
was such a big fan of the brand. I'm not
somebody that rolls around in Rolexes
and stuff like that, but I do want
quality jewelry that isn't going to
change color, that is going to be
durable enough to keep up with me. Um,
that looks fashionable and that has a
sense of meaning. And that's exactly
what Crafted has in their rings, in
their necklaces, in everything they
produce. I know the founders. I know how
much they care. And if you're a man that
often struggles to find a good place to
to buy good quality jewelry that's not
going to change color, that's not going
to break, um, Crafted is the answer. and
it's incredibly incredibly affordable
and they have a sale on right now which
they never ever do 70% off. I implore
you to go and check it out. For many
years, people have been asking for a
coffee flavored Hule and quite recently
Hu released the iced coffee caramel
flavor of their um ready to drink Hules
and I've just become hooked on it over
the last couple of weeks. I've been on a
really interesting journey with Hule
which I've described and talked about a
little bit on this podcast. I started
with the berry ready to drink. Then I
moved over to the protein salted caramel
because it's 100 calories and it gives
you all of your essential vitamins and
minerals but also gives you the 20 odd
grams of protein you need. And now I'm
balanced between them both. I drink
mostly the banana flavor ready to drink.
I've got really into the iced coffee
caramel um flavor of of heels ready to
drink and now I'm drinking that as well
as the protein. Make sure you try the
new ready to drink flavors. The the
caramel flavor is amazing. The um new
banana flavor as well is amazing. And
obviously, as I said, the iced coffee
caramel flavor has been a real smash
hit. So check it out. Let me know what
you think on social media. I see all of
your tags and Instagram posts and tweets
about Hu.
[Music]